

Why:

Make_magic.py is a Python program for putting together a contribution for the MagIC database.  Make_magic.py is specifically designed for making a contribution without measurement data; if you ARE including measurement data, we recommend that you use QuickMagIC instead.  Make_magic allows you to add data at the location, site, sample, and specimen levels.  You can also add results and ages.  Make_magic uses an Excel-like grid interface for entering and editing data.  Useful features include: pop-up menus with controlled vocabularies, multi-cell pasting from external spreadsheets, and built-in validations for MagIC database requirements.

Grid tips:

How copy/paste works
    Multiple-cell pasting is enabled.  Simply highlight the cells you wish to paste into make_magic, select the top-left cell where the block should begin, and click 'control v'.  

How drop-down menus work
    Columns that have controlled vocabularies will have a pop-up menu when you click on a cell in that row.  It is possible to enter a value that is NOT on the menu; simply double click the cell in question.  The menus are populated by the data model at earthref.org.  

How to select an entire column
    To edit all the cells in a column, first click on the column header.  If there is no controlled vocabulary list for that column, a text box will pop up, and whatever you enter there will propagate into all of the cells in that column.  If there is a controlled vocabulary available, first click the column header to highlight all cells, then click on any cell and select a value (or values) from the pop-up menu.  


How to include/exclude interpretation data:
    You can provide interpretations at the specimen, sample, or site level.  ......  In the MagIC data model, if you reference a specimen, site, sample, or location you must provide some basic information about it.  

How to add/remove headers:
    


                    

How data structure works (i.e., you only provide sample_name for specimens)


Controlled vocabularies:

For more information on controlled vocabularies, see: http://earthref.org/MAGIC/shortlists.htm


Data model:

For more information on the data model, see: http://earthref.org/MAGIC/metadata.htm
